---
tags: philosophy, Germany, Hegel, 2000s, 1700s, 1800s, Prussia
---

- [Half Hour Hegel](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4gvlOxpKKIgR4OyOt31isknkVH2Kweq2), an effort to close-read the entirety of [[G.W.F. Hegel]]'s [[Phenomenology of Spirit]] in half-hour chunks as YouTube videos
	- uses [[Kojeve]] and [[Hippolyte]] commentaries as a basis- "Kojeve is fireworks, Hippolyte is a more careful, scholarly attitude"
- **1 - [Preface , sec 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QW8b_cnhql0)**
  collapsed:: true
	- why is writing a preface for a philosophical work difficult?
		- what leads us to write is historically contingent- who met who when, what idea they had- but to Hegel, philosophy is a matter of the *universal*
		- generalities about the content and result don't matter much
		- philosophy needs to turn particular experiences into universal, intelligible truths. the typical content of prefaces can't do that!
	- science for Hegel - **Wissenschaft**
		- science in Hegel's time referred to more than the physical sciences- *Geisteswissenschaften* such as history, linguistics, etc.
		- philosophy is a science in this sense!
- **2 - [Preface, sec 2-3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXfhUYPYZR0)**
  collapsed:: true
	- the relationship of antithesis between truth and falsity in philsophy is superficial!
		- there's this view of a philosophical system that either we accept a view, or contradict it. so, if Aristotle corrected Plato, why read Plato?
		- Hegel brings up the life cycle of a plant as an example. from bud, to flower, to fruit, to new plant- each of these is a mutually exclusive entity, but a necessary phase in the life of the plant
		- he sees the diversity of philosophical systems as a progressive unfolding of truth
	- but this kind of thing is exactly what folks do in prefaces! we lay out what views the philosophical age holds and how we disagree with 'em. but simply rejecting a philosophical system is like rejecting the bud because we want the fruit!
	- > The aim by itself is a lifeless universal just as the guiding tendency is a mere drive that lacks in real existence, the bare result is a lifeless corpse that has left guiding tendency behind.
	- the *cycle of philosophical activity* is the real issue! not the result at the end!
- **3 - [Preface, sec 4-6](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c9Q1DWrS3pI)**
  collapsed:: true
	- culture is a process of convergence, a becoming-cultured
		- starts with the immediacy of substantial life. immediacy = nothing is mediating it
			- similar to [[Kant]]'s "dogmatic slumber" roused by [[Hume]], perhaps
		- we move from there into general principles about the world...
		- then into thoughts about "the real issue"
		- these conceptions then help us loop back and classify the experiences of substantial life
	- to be cultured is to be able to pull yourself out of your embeddedness in your way of life, to reflect on it, pronounce judgement, and pass on to others through teaching
	- Hegel wants philosophy to move from "love of knowing" to actual knowing. to do this, it must become a systematic science of truth
		- this is also a temporal process! **now** is the time for philosophy to become a science
	- the only way to accurate judge a philosophical system as a whole is to look at the system as a whole!
	- scientific truth has only the Notion as the object of its existence
	- you can't grasp truth in a mediated, conceptual, scientific way- you get there through intuition
	- > For the Absolute is not supposed to be comprehended, it is to be felt and intuited; not the Notion of the Absolute, but the feeling and intuition of it, must govern what is said, and must be expressed by it. The ‘beautiful’, the ‘holy’, the ‘eternal’, ‘religion’, and ‘love’ are the bait required to arouse the desire to bite; not the Notion, but ecstasy, not the cold march of necessity in the thing itself, but the ferment of enthusiasm, these are supposed to be what sustains and continually extends the wealth of substance.
- **4- [Preface, sec 7-9](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-5yrx8kSusk)**
  collapsed:: true
	- spirit moving past substantial life- faith, security, certainty, reconciliation with essential being
	- moves into an insubstantial reflection of itself, onto itself. that hurts! what are we? after the Enlightenment, we're filled with doubt. we can't turn back to the comfort we had before.
	- what do we demand from philosophy? is it a self-help book? a method to reach the Absolute?
	- goes into the change in conception of the world from pre-modern to modern, and the old split between the ordinary, private, sensible world of everyday life/experience and the divine, beyond, Heavenly world of truth/spirit.
		- we've moved away from the divine to earthly things, to the extent we now need a reciprocal move back to Spirit
		- "folks nowadays are so starved for the Absolute they'll take any crumb they can get!"
		- brings up the alleged [[Kierkegaard]]ian "[[leap of faith]]" as a parallel
	- philosophy is not merely "edifying"! what sounds cool? what sounds mystical? what satisfies the listener? ...who cares! that's low expectations on the part of the listener, and stinginess on the part of the speaker. people need something with substance
		- philosophy should "not just give 'em some meat, but draw some blood"
- **5 - [Preface, sec 10-12](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BAEQ81ji9_Y)**
  collapsed:: true
	- "just as there is an empty breadth, there is an empty depth"
	- sometimes we think of "oh, that's deep, man", "hazy, rapturous" thoughts as the "real stuff", moreso then science, systems, causation, necessity, etc. Hegel things this is superficial
	- to be substantial, we need to be able to articulate our views and measure them
	- covers quantitative vs. qualitative change in growth, the way social order, systems of thought, and ways of living change gradually then suddenly all at once
	- "the notion of science"
		- science is still in its infancy! it doesn't understand its own process.
		- "science, the crown of a world of spirit"- *Wissenschaft* across the board, not just the hard sciences
		- for science to be science, it has to be unified, it has to include the knowing subject, it has to include what connects differenet areas of knowledge to each other
- **6 - [Preface, sec 13-14](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hap5R2h0d0Y)**
  collapsed:: true
	- content vs. form dyad
	- the old world has cracks, but as we leave it for the new world of general science, we lose the richness of prior experience
	- the world as of now is esoteric- only a few insiders can understand and participate. but it should, as a science, be exoteric and open to the reason of all
	- critiques of the scientific worldview were partially justified, because science was incomplete! not complete in detail, not perfect in form. needs development, especially in self-understanding
		- interesting view of philosophy of science as a type of self-reflexive science
	- a split arises between big-picture details and material intelligibility
- **7 - [Preface, sec 15-17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XwEV5QZhqro)**
  collapsed:: true
	- modern science gives the _impression_ that everything is solved, at least in method... but are really just repeating the same patterns over and over. this is what happens to science when it isn't aware of itself!
		- if you're a doctor, everything looks like a medical problem. if a physicist, basic force & particles. etc.
	- how do you grasp and articulate a diversity of content, in a way that does justice to it, and isn't mere repetition of the same form?
	- how do we re-articulate what science has learned?
	- unity in the Absolute is not as simple as "the night in which all cows are black"!
	- the Absolute vs. experience:
		- absolute- monotony? abstract universality? A=A identity?
		- experience- determinacy, distinctness, differentiation
	- > [...] everything turns on grasping the True, not only as substance, but equally as Subject
		- how is this even possible?
- **8 - [Preface, sec 18-20](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-5vvyVrLF3U)**
  collapsed:: true
	- substance is subject! but how does this work?
	- references [[St. Augustine]] on time- when nobody asks, I know what it is, but once somebody asks, I don't. Truth and Unity are these things- viz. [[universals]]
	- subject is constantly positing itself _as_ itself, yet also self-othering as the other- viz. [[Fichte]]
	- role of **mediation**
	- life of God/divine cognition as the interplay of love with itself- this ain't wrong, but not very informative, and borders on insipid
	- need to have otherness and alienation in order to overcome it
	- the True is the whole, via essence consummating itself (unfolding, perfecting)
	- whatever is more than just a word, is a proposition, contains a becoming-other
- **9 - [Preface, sec 21-23](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MupCVLUciBE)**
  collapsed:: true
	- > [...] mediation is nothing beyond self-moving self-sameness, or is reflection into self, the moment of the "I" which is for itself pure negativity or, when reduced to its pure abstraction, simple becoming.
	- this mediation stuff is what people don't want to get! it's sticky and difficult to think through, so we want simple immediacy. but reality doesn't work that way
	- reflection overcomes the antithesis between the process of becoming, and the result
	- reason is purposive activity- oriented toward ends
		- viz. [[A Spirit of Trust (Lectures)]] on Hegel's recognition of the intensional structure of cognition
	- Hegel was in an era of skepticism about [[teleology]] & [[Aristotelian]] "final causes". but Aristotle got the idea of nature as purposive activity right!
		- the purpose for Hegel is for the absolute through us and through human history, to come to know itself in its fully developed condition, which is _as us_!
	- positing God as love, the eternal, the moral world-order (e.g. [[Fichte]]), only posit something of the Absolute, but they don't show its self-reflection
		- "God" on its own is just a meaningless sound, an empty name
- **10 - [Preface, sec 24-25](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1mDmU_IL8Jg)**
  collapsed:: true
	- basic principles of philosophy, if true, are also false! what the heck does this mean?
		- if you want to reveal the falsity of a basic idea, you can't just toss ideas at it from outside. you have to "give it enough rope"- let it play out until it shows itself as untrue
- **11 - [Preface, sec 26](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ZzFNGhK2y8)**
	- interplay between the individual and science
		- the individual is ourselves- as single subjects, concretely existing, with our own own histories
		- science needs to not only be systematic and verify truths, but to be reflexive. to think about itself, and whether it's adequate for describing reality, which it is a part of
		- there's a dialectic between the individual and objects- we both condition and are conditioned by our environment. we have a degree of freedom- the conditioning isn't total. and the environment differs from individual to individual!
		- as well as a dialectic between the individual and science! science must be universal, but the individual has the right to demand a ladder from science. and science can only develop through individual people who become scientists!
-