- spicy AWS discovery- CloudFront Functions [have certain limitations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/edge-functions-restrictions.html).  Among them is this: #aws #AWS/Cloudfront #footguns 
  
  > CloudFront does not invoke edge functions for viewer response events when the origin returns HTTP status code 400 or higher.
	- suppose your CloudFront distribution points to an [[AWS/S3]] origin.
	- suppose you want to use CloudFront's [custom error response](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/GeneratingCustomErrorResponses.html) to always serve `index.html` for any unknown route, like if you're serving an [[SPA]].
	- suppose also that you have a CloudFront edge function processing every response to add headers.
	- what's gonna happen when a user requests `/route-that-doesn't-exist` and gets served `index.html` insetad? will they get the headers? **they won't!** the CF edge function will never get called
	- but suppose we have some headers set as object metadata for `index.html` in the bucket. will the user get those headers? **they will**!
	- that's certified [[jacked]]
- learned about [A Burglar's Guide To The City](https://burglarsguide.com/) #architecture #books #crime
	- > In one of the most interesting moments in his memoir, [jewelry thief Bill Mason](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Mason_(jewel_thief)) sees that architecture can be made to do what he wants it to do; it’s like watching a character in *Star Wars* learn to use the Force.
	- > In a lengthy scene at a hotel in Cleveland that Mason would ultimately hit more than once in his career, he explains that his intended prize was locked inside a room whose door was too closely guarded for him to slip through. Then he realizes the obvious: he has been thinking the way the hotel wanted him to think—the way the architects had hoped he would behave—looking for doors and hallways when he could simply carve a new route where he wanted it. The ensuing realization delights him. “Elated at the idea that I could cut my own door right where I needed one,” he writes, Mason simply breaks into the hotel suite adjacent to the main office. There, he flings open the closet, pushes aside the hangers, and cuts his way from one room into the other using a drywall knife. In no time at all, he has cut his “own door” through to the manager’s office, where he takes whatever he wants—departing right back through the very “door” he himself made. It is architectural surgery, pure and simple.
	- > Later, Mason actually mocks the idea that a person would remain reliant on doors, making fun of anyone who thinks burglars, in particular, would respect the limitations of architecture. “*Surely if someone were to rob the place,*” he writes in all italics, barbed with sarcasm, *“they’d come in as respectable people would, through the door provided for the purpose.* Maybe that explains why people will have four heavy-duty locks on a solid oak door that’s right next to a glass window.” People seem to think they should lock-pick or kick their way through solid doors rather than just take a ten-dollar drywall knife and carve whole new hallways into the world. Those people are mere slaves to  architecture, spatial captives in a world someone else has designed for them.
	- > Something about this is almost unsettlingly brilliant, as if it is *nonburglars *who have been misusing the built environment this whole time; as if it is nonburglars who have been unwilling to question the world’s most basic spatial assumptions, too scared to think past the tyranny of architecture’s long-held behavioral expectations.
	- > To use architect Rem Koolhaas’s phrase, we have been voluntary prisoners of architecture all along, willingly coerced and browbeaten by its code of spatial conduct, accepting walls as walls and going only where the corridors lead us. Because doors are often the sturdiest and most fortified parts of the wall in front of you, they are a distraction and a trap. By comparison, the wall itself is often more like tissue paper, just drywall and some two-by-fours, without a lock or a chain in sight. Like clouds, apartment walls are mostly air; seen through a burglar’s eyes, they aren’t even there. Cut a hole through one and you’re in the next room in seconds.
- jammed out to [Hiroko Yamamura](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eBtBEGjosHo) / FKA Bio-Booster. pretty sick grooves. appreciated the [[EBM]] meets [[house]] meets [[techno]] vibe. classic yet fresh #music