- nuggets of [[OKR]] wisdom from convos today: #[[engineering management]]
	- don't get hung up on perfect detail. lightweight metrics are actually good! the fact you can ditch 'em mid-stream is good! if the metric turns out bad, just change the metric to fit your goal better. don't warp your goal to fit a nice-but-inaccurate metric. **impact** is the goal, not some number on a screen
	- if setting OKRs seems hard despite knowing your goal clearly, that doesn't necessarily mean you're doing it wrong. turning a concrete goal into a measurable fact often _is just hard_, so there's a strong chance you're just running up against the actual hard part!
- stack of recent reads from Cutler: #management #product
	- [The Predictability Trap](https://cutlefish.substack.com/p/tbm-259-the-predictability-trap)
		- you can't make predictable delivery a core goal! you need to aim at _delivered value_ and _sustainable, differentiated growth_. delivery is just a step that gets us to those ends
		- what we really want is _predictable innovation_, not predictable delivery
	- [How to Make the Case for Slowing Down to Speed Up](https://cutlefish.substack.com/p/tbm-257-how-to-make-case-for-slowing)
		- > How can we make the case for slowing down to speed up when we are already going slow, and when shutting things down and starting over is not an option?
		- 10 hacks for making this difficult situation a bit less imposing
	- [Self-Gaslighting and the Doubt Loop](https://cutlefish.substack.com/p/tbm-254-self-gaslighting-and-the)
		- it's easy to get yourself into a loop of self-doubt and career stagnation purely from everyday stressors at otherwise-healthy workplaces! here's how that happens, some ways to recognize if you might be there, and how to climb out
	- [Scale vs. Efficiency](https://cutlefish.substack.com/p/tbm-251-scale-vs-efficiency)
		- companies slow down as they grow- why? is this unhealthy? what should you do about it?
		- goes over normal growing pains vs core efficiency- everybody have pains, but some have pathology
		- touches on strategic inefficiency- sometimes, we let the inefficiency remain deliberately, because we know the org's real value lies elsewhere! so we focus on the main effort and let it ride #strategy
		- tangentially, an [[economies of scale]] thing, and a [[long and short run]] thing