- big whack of reading on [[Hegel]] from Notre Dame's [[Church Life Journal]] #philosophy #theology #Catholicism
	- [Hegel and Catholic Social Teaching](https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/hegel-and-catholic-social-teaching/), connecting and contrasting a Hegelian picture of ethics and [[individuality]] to [[Aristotle]] and [[St. Thomas Aquinas]]'s "zoon politikon" and [[natural law]]
	- [Meeting Hegel Halfway at the Empty Tomb](https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/meeting-hegel-halfway-to-the-empty-tomb/) - a Hegelian, dialectical reading of the Resurrection in Matthew
		- > So I encounter something that is not-I, and I immediately set about the task of mediation: I cannot know the truth of the other until the other is one who emerges within me. And this internalizing is what gets the resistance, the negation, underway. What does this emergent other want from me? Is it trying to take over, become me? What do I want from it? To swallow it up so that it is annihilated in the overpowering self that I had already pre-formed before I ever met this new clamor for truth within? Life itself is this motion of emergence, resistance, and new emergence.
		  
		  > And when the struggle reaches a conclusion, what then? The negation itself has been negated, Hegel says, in that all my efforts to assert myself by dissolving it, and all its efforts to assert itself by dissolving me, have only brought about an irresistible new being, in which the strange truth that is other carries on as a force existing within me. Even more strangely, I carry on as a life force within this not-I. We “shine,” Hegel says, within one another (342). The being of the negated other shines within the emergent essence. I come into self-awareness as existing, as what I am, only “by virtue of another” (338), namely the reflected shine of the other that marks the battle of negation that has made me what I am.
	- [97 Theses on Hegel and His Catholic Readers](https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/97-theses-on-hegel/)
	- [Must Catholics Hate Hegel?](https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/must-catholics-hate-hegel/)