- via Ferd.ca, [The Law of Stretched [Cognitive] Systems](https://ferd.ca/the-law-of-stretched-cognitive-systems.html) #SRE
	- > This has, I suppose, a weird side-effect in that it's an ever-ongoing ladder-pulling move. The incumbent tool-chain has greater and greater network effects, and any game-changing approach that does not mesh well with the rest of it (but could sustain even greater capacity had it received a similar investment) will never be able to get a foothold into an established ecosystem. Any newcomer in the landscape has to either pay an ever-increasing cost just to get started, or has to have such a different and distinct approach that it cancels out the accrued set of optimizations others have.
	- > There's something a bit disheartening about assuming that any move you make that improves how understandable a system is will also rapidly be used to move as close to the edge of chaos as possible. I however have so far not observed anything that would lead me to believe things are going to be any different this time around.
- via Lorin Hochstein, [Any change can break us, but we can’t treat every change the same](https://surfingcomplexity.blog/2023/12/17/any-change-can-break-us-but-we-cant-treat-every-change-the-same/) #SRE
- [Maybe Getting Rid of Your QA Team was Bad, Actually.](https://davidkcaudill.medium.com/maybe-getting-rid-of-your-qa-team-was-bad-actually-52c408bd048b) #SRE #testing
	- > Quality might be “everybody’s job”…but it should also be “somebody’s job”. The push/pull of Quality vs Velocity **needs** an advocate for quality in the discussion — and that dynamic is vital to producing better results. Your testing tools, your test *quality, *test plans… all of these need an opinionated party to argue in favor of doing the best possible job.
	- > The most conscientious employees in your organization are the most bitter. They see the quality issues, they often address them, and they get no recognition for doing so. When they speak up about quality concerns, they get treated like mouthbreathers who want to slow down. They watch the “move fast and break things” crowd get rewarded time after time, while they run around angrily cleaning up their messes. To these folks, it feels like giving a damn is a huge career liability in your organization. **Because it is.**