- The New Yorker on [how ECMO is redefining death](https://www.newyorker.com/science/annals-of-medicine/how-ecmo-is-redefining-death) #medicine #death #ethics
	- >  A patient whose heart has stopped could potentially live on the machine for months, awake, able to walk and read the newspaper. But he might never leave the I.C.U. [...] ECMO is transforming medical care, saving lives. But it also complicates care when life inevitably begins to end, committing some patients to a liminal state with no hope for recovery. When should it be used, or withheld? And who should decide?
- Anton Zaides on why [distracting software engineers is more harmful than you think](https://zaidesanton.substack.com/p/the-biggest-problem-in-todays-work) #[[software engineering]] #[[engineering management]]
- [Lazarus Lake's second walk across America, at 70 years old](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2024/apr/27/lazarus-lake-walks-across-america-lazcon) #biography #geography
- Tyler Cowen on [potential growth winners for the coming years](https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2024/04/forthcoming-growth-winners.html): [[Philippines]], [[Benin]], and [[Egypt]] #economics #geopolitics
- TBM and Hazel Weakly on [software development as collective learning](https://cutlefish.substack.com/p/software-development-as-collective) #[[software engineering]] #[[platform engineering]] #learning
	- > There's this individualistic, I can change the world kind of philosophy that's happening there. That goes pretty far. It goes really, really far, especially if you get really good at change agency, you can single handedly influence an organization of hundreds of people, maybe even thousands of people. The thing that I find is that your presence is the multiplier, not the outputs of what you did. And so you end up with these people who become very effective change agents, like me. And then they leave, the change agency stops happening. And that is unsatisfying to me, because what's the point of developing something and building up an improvement in the system when the system doesn't improve if you step away from it? That's not actually building something that works to me.
	- > [Migrating well] comes down to, I think, two or three different things. One is that you need to think of migrations in a different way. A lot of people think of migrations as essentially you see a problem, you have the solution that will fix the problem, we need to migrate to a new solution. But the problem with that is they're solving a multifaceted problem with a single faceted technical solution.
	  So that in and of itself is just not going to really work. And the second thing that often runs into with migrations. is people think of migrations like the word migration. Kind of implies to us a one time, one shot thing. And when you look at migrations in nature, migrations in the wild, migrations are not migration, it's a migratory pattern.
	  And that is the mindset shift you need until the migration is, how do we make change easy to handle? And as an artifact of doing that, be willing to do change and that's migrations. So you want a migratory approach to, you know, software development, or, you know, business thinking, or like, you know, product development, like pivoting in business is a migration, we don't call it that. #migration