- via Schwitzgebel, [When Counting Conscious Subjects, the Result Needn't Always Be a Determinate Whole Number](https://schwitzsplinters.blogspot.com/2024/11/new-in-draft-when-counting-conscious.html) #[[philosophy of mind]] #[[cognitive science]] #philosophy
- [What if Kubernetes was a compiler target?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QcYsGytNBe8) #kubernetes #distsys #compilers
	- reminds me in a number of ways of #Unison!
- [On "Safe" C++: Hell In A Refcell](https://izzys.casa/2024/11/on-safe-cxx/) - Izzy Muerte with a wide-ranging polemic on bringing safety to C++, abuse and dysfunction in standards committees, feminism in PL design, community, the tribulations of AI, and Dark Souls #PL #CPP #C #safety #feminism #AI
	- > This problem is further compounded by the inability for project infrastructure to quickly be stood up to support a short running project, and thus these small languages turn into research projects or just eventually die off. Surprisingly, there is one language that has managed to avoid this at least from a public view at scale and that’s the Scheme revision. Every couple of years a group gets together and then works on and publishes revisions for the Scheme implementation of Lisp. Were you to remove the institutional aspect of this, and just kind of let people do whatever the fuck they wanted and let it play out letting an infinite number of schemes splitting off, dying, smashing back into each other, grafting specific aspects onto each other you’d find a more volatile, but I personally believe more freeing, language development environment.
- Language Log on [the end of "teaching Lucy"](https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=66995) #reading #pedagogy #USA
- [No common (sense) world](https://blog.uvm.edu/aivakhiv/2024/11/12/no-common-sense-world/) - Ivakhiv on the informational catastrophe, its consequences for our ecosystems, and how not to give up on humanity #sociology #ecology #information #media #Whitehead #[[social media]] #faith
	- > My faith is in a universe that produces “Niagaras of beauty,” in Terrence McKenna’s words, and that will continue to produce them irrespective of where we happen to be in our awareness of them. (There’s an experiential core to that faith that we need not get into right now.) To be in the presence of such a universe, and especially to be part of it, and occasionally conscious of that, is to be convinced there is more to life than what we ourselves might conceive of on an average day.
	  That faith occasionally gives me insights into beautiful things we can do for each other, with each other, and with the life around us. It also gives me a sense of a standard by which we can judge both the politics and the technological achievements of our time. Some of us had thought social media, for instance, would be a game-changer; we now know we were completely wrong. Or at least that its game-changing nature has sooner brought about the opposite of what we had hoped: that it has come to distract, disinform, and exhaust us even more than twentieth-century media (like television) already did to us.