- Aeon on [reimagining balance](https://aeon.co/essays/how-socioeconomic-equalisation-generates-new-ideas-of-balance) - the role of the concept of balance in thought, from the Middle Ages through today #philosophy #equilibrium #[[complex systems]] #economics #[[philosophy of science]] #medieval #history
- Will Larson on [constraints on giving feedback](https://lethain.com/constraints-on-giving-feedback/) (with reference to [[Situation Behavior Impact]] and [[Radical Candor]]) #feedback #[[engineering management]]
	- > Back when I was managing at Digg and Uber, I spent a lot of time delivering feedback to my management chain about issues in our organization. My intentions were good, but I alienated my management chain without accomplishing much. I also shared my concerns with my team, which I thought would help them understand the organization, but mostly isolated them in a Values Oasis or demoralized them instead.
	  Those experiences taught me that pushing your organization to improve is essential leadership work, but organizations can only absorb so much improvement at a given time before they reject the person providing the feedback. Being rejected while trying so hard to help is painful, and it’s also a predictable outcome.
	  It’s also a bad outcome for your team. When I focused on how the environment could change to make my team more successful, I was usually technically correct, but usually didn’t help my team very much. Because work environments change slowly, it benefits your team more to give them feedback about how they can succeed in their current environment than to agree with them about how the current environment does a poor job of supporting them. Agreeing feels empathetic, but frames them as a bystander rather than active participant in their work.
- CLJ asks: [What is obedience?](https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/what-is-obedience/) #ethics #virtue #theology #Christianity
- Misha Valdman on [how Derek Parfit could "make you eat shit"](https://zworld.substack.com/p/could-i-make-you-eat-shit). or, on the [[repugnant conclusion]], Parfit's unique brand of genius, and what he *didn't* realize about population ethics. #philosophy #ethics #Parfit