- [Mark Alznauer wins the Journal of the History of Philosophy Article Prize](https://dailynous.com/2024/01/24/alznauer-wins-journal-of-the-history-of-philosophy-article-prize/) for his work on Hegel: [Untrue Concepts in Hegel's Logic](https://muse.jhu.edu/pub/1/article/878520) #Hegel #[[history of philosophy]] #philosophy #papers
	- > *I argue that Hegel took concepts—not propositions, judgments, or spatiotemporal objects—as the primary truth-bearer in his logic and attempt to offer a defensible interpretation of what it means for an individual concept (or “thought-determination”) to be assessed as true or untrue. Along the way, I consider the shortcomings of several alternative interpretations of truth in Hegelian logic, paying particular attention to the now-common contention that a commitment to something like Frege’s context principle prevents Hegel from assessing concepts independently of the role that they play in judgments.*
- [You shall know a word by the company it keeps](https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=62325): how [[word2vec]]/[[GloVe]], [[Wittgenstein]], English jurisprudence, and [[Sir Francis Bacon]] are all tied together by a common linguistic idea #ml #linguistics
- via Salon, [What Happened to Giorgio Agamben?](https://slate.com/human-interest/2022/02/giorgio-agamben-covid-holocaust-comparison-right-wing-protest.html) #[[Giorgio Agamben]] #health #COVID
	- *In February 2020, a hugely influential philosopher decided COVID lockdowns looked a lot like Nazi Germany. The fallout in academia and beyond has raged ever since.*
	- more than just highlighting what's up with Agamben these days, this article highlights the thread of medical skepticism running through Agamben's career
- in an amusingly parallel title, via LA Review of Books, [What Happened to David Graeber?](https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/what-happened-to-david-graeber/), an account of the late Graeber's seeming retreat from anarchism #sociology #economics #anarchism
	- quoted from *Dawn of Everything*:
		- > [I]t’s not clear what eliminating inequality would even mean. (Which kind of inequality? Wealth? Opportunity? Exactly how equal would people have to be in order for us to be able to say we’ve “eliminated inequality”?) The term ‘inequality’ is a way of framing social problems appropriate to an age of technocratic reformers, who assume from the outset that no real vision of social transformation is even on the table.
		- > Debating inequality allows one to tinker with numbers, argue about Gini coefficients and thresholds of dysfunction, readjust tax regimes or social welfare mechanisms, even shock the public with figures showing just how bad things have become (“Can you imagine? The richest 1 percent of the world’s population own 44 percent of the world’s wealth!”)
		- > [Debates about that State's origins] almost always assume that “the state” is just one thing, and that in speaking of the origins of the state one is necessarily also speaking of the origins of urbanization, written literature, law, exploitation, bureaucracy, science, and almost anything else of enduring importance that happened between the dawn of agriculture and the Renaissance, aside, perhaps, from the rise of world religions.