- The Nation on chronic wasting disease - [How Wisconsin Lost Control of the Strange Disease Killing Its Deer](https://www.thenation.com/article/society/chronic-wasting-disease-wisconsin-deer-humans/) #deer #health #CWD #hunting #ecology #Wisconsin
- CLJ on Latour's lesser-known work in philosophy of religion - [Bruno Latour’s Hesitant Proclamation](https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/bruno-latours-hesitant-proclamation/) #Latour #STS #philosophy #[[philsophy of religion]] #theology
- [unbuddhism: A Sri Lankan author on distancing himself from the “real Buddhism” of his country](https://tricycle.org/article/unbuddhism-vajra-chandrasekera/) #Buddhism #theology #irreligion
- ["America was supposed to be Art Deco."](https://www.fashionablylatetakes.com/p/america-was-supposed-to-be-art-deco) #art #architecture #[[Art Deco]] #urbanism #modernism #brutalism
	- > "The vernacular architecture of the seventeenth or eighteenth century tends to be simple, with complex ornament restricted to the homes of the rich and to public buildings. In the nineteenth-century districts, ornament proliferates: even the tenement blocks of the poor have richly decorated stucco facades.
	  The revealed evidence is in fact overwhelming that the net effect between, say, 1830 and 1914 was mainly one of greater affordability. To be sure, the ornament of the middle and working classes was of stucco, terracotta, or wood, not stone, and it was cast or milled in stock patterns, not bespoke. These features occasioned much censoriousness and snobbery at the time. But we might also see them as bearing witness to the democratizing power of technology, which brought within reach of the people of Europe forms of beauty that had previously belonged only to those who ruled over them."
	  And then the Modernists came and took it all away again. The International Style stands against humanity's longstanding love of beauty as an aberration and an abomination. Art Deco is to the International Style as jazz is to 4′33″ by John Cage, who composed four minutes and thirty-three seconds of silence so that concert goers could listen to their shuffling feet and barely suppressed coughs in lieu of a traditional symphony. It is objectively more profound to hear Billie Holiday sing of summertime. When Modernists stripped our cityscapes of ornamentation, they claimed to be after what's real — but they confused being honest with being literal.