- [The importance of SEV-1 call leaders](https://argoday.medium.com/sev-1-call-leaders-8fdc0ae5f6be) - what distinguishes SEV-1 from regular incidents, and who should helm the ship? #SRE #[[incident response]]
- via Alex Ewerlöf, [SRE Archetypes](https://blog.alexewerlof.com/p/sre-archetypes) #SRE #archetypes
- via Fred Hebert, a great [reading list in distributed systems](https://ferd.ca/a-distributed-systems-reading-list.html) #distsys
- via CLJ, [What Is Man That AI Is Mindful Of Him?](https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/what-is-man-that-ai-is-mindful-of-him/) #philosophy #[[philosophy of technology]] #[[tool use]] #[[philosophy of language]] #evolution
	- > Ong’s point is that, just as my use of a hammer makes me stronger, my use of the cultural technics shapes not only what we think, but how we think. It shapes how we imagine and take up with the world around us. Bernard Stiegler puts it differently. Humans are their technics. We are born into the technics of our age and it shapes what we are and what it is possible for us to become, including what “we” think is ethics. Human life evolves by means other than life. The human animal becomes the animal it is through its technics.
	- > To become a generous person, I must engage in generous activities. If I am in the habit of writing a check every month, and taking it to the homeless shelter, [...] I have to walk into the homeless shelter, and in doing so, I encounter the poor face-to-face. I see that they are just people trying to make it in life.
	  But modern technology makes it possible that I can set up autopay through my bank allowing me to donate monthly without the creation of habit. [...] In fact, it changes the way I think of these people. They are not Joe and Betty, they become “the homeless”. While I am giving a check to the homeless shelter, and they are still getting the money, am I truly becoming generous?