- Verfassungsblog on [Trump and the Folklore of Capitalism](https://verfassungsblog.de/trump-and-the-folklore-of-capitalism/) #USA #sociology #capitalism
	- > To gain popular assent and prove stable, Arnold argued in Symbols of Government, institutions must take readily accessible symbolic forms. Symbolic contours help people grapple with complex realities and provide a measure of comfort in a rapidly changing world. “Social institutions require faith and dreams to give them morale”, with the requisite work done by some “great reservoir of emotionally important social symbol” (34, 229). However useful, social symbols tend to mask change and are exploited by the powerful: they usually benefit when symbols no longer relate to real-life conditions.
	  Folklore of Capitalism (1937) then proceeded to insist that no social symbol had been more important than that of “the American Businessman. Warriors were respected, but they had a distinctly minor place. The National Government had to imitate the American Businessman”.
	- > Encompassing interrelated legal, political, and psychological features, the “personification of the corporation” was at the core of America’s political folklore. It transferred the image of the heroic individual entrepreneur, a relic of pioneer times, to mass industrial organizations akin to coercive “industrial armies”. Arnold presciently grasped that large corporations are, in fact, private governments exercising extraordinary power over employees, consumers, and local communities. Yet, their personification leads us to think of them as personal or small-scale property, despite quantitative differences in scale and qualitative organizational and legal divergences.