- Google on [preventing outages with System Theoretic Process Analysis](https://sre.google/stpa/teaching/), as well as how to teach it #Google #[[systems thinking]] #[[systems engineering]] #SRE #[[incident response]] #pedagogy
- Aeon on [philosophy's blindspot](https://aeon.co/essays/education-should-matter-to-philosophy-what-took-so-long)- education! #[[philosophy of education]] #pedagogy #epistemology #philosophy #[[Philip Kitcher]]
	- > So let me spell out why exactly education should matter to philosophy. The reason is that education makes us what we are. Human beings do not enter the world with their rational powers ‘up and running’. Those powers are actualised in the child in a process of formation, or education in the broadest sense (the ‘upbuilding’ of a human being, as Kitcher puts it, quoting Ralph Waldo Emerson). This occurs through the acquisition of natural language and the conceptual structures embodied therein, through initiation into styles of thinking and reasoning, and the assimilation of communal practices that structure the normative landscape in which children must learn to orientate themselves.
	- > In my view, however, there remains at least one natural-historical judgment that is true of the human: the human being is a rational animal, whose powers of reason are brought to actuality only through education. This captures the centrality of education to our life-form. The human child is born into a world in which reason is ‘externalised’ in so many forms – in spoken language, of course, but also in artefacts, in the written word and other media, in practices of enquiry, reasoning, teaching, and in copious forms of intelligent and creative activity. Children’s powers of reason find expression as they become at home in this world. But that doesn’t happen just by maturation. It’s possible only with the help of others.