- [The priesthood of all chatbots?](https://www.christiancentury.org/features/priesthood-all-chatbots) Zac Koons on Ecclesia.ai, EpiscoBOT, and whether we really ought to entrust machines to pray and preach #ml #AI #Christianity #Episcopalian
	- > [...] what we lose in all the aggregating and synthesizing is the communion of saints. Cranmer’s humanity matters. The humanity of the psalmists matters. Your pastor’s humanity matters. Their humanity matters not only because of the Spirit’s presence in their hearts in the original composition of their prayers, but also because in adopting their words as our own, we are communing with siblings in Christ across time and space. The same Spirit indwells us and binds us together within the same body of Christ. An AI-generated prayer fails completely in this respect, because it is written precisely by nobody. AI pillages human-written prayers from the past but dissembles their human origin in the process, such that there is no particular Christian soul with whom to commune.
	  The historical record of Christianity does not lack written prayers. Nor do we lack living Christians to compose new prayers for new occasions. AI is not an improvement upon this great cloud of witnesses; it’s a tool that pours gasoline on the fires of isolation and loneliness in the modern world. I picture Cranmer at his desk in that beautiful balcony nook adjoining the Lambeth Palace Chapel, where he is said to have composed many of the collects for the very first BCP while gazing down at the altar below. And before me I gaze upon the icon of Cathy 3.0, whose blinking ellipses tell me she is thinking—or praying? These two things are not the same.
-