- Martin Fowler & co. on [expert generalists](https://martinfowler.com/articles/expert-generalist.html). should the industry get over its fixation on specialists, and explicitly train and hire for generalists? #[[software engineering]] #generalism #[[software careers]]
- Charity Majors [in praise of "normal" engineers](https://charity.wtf/2025/06/19/in-praise-of-normal-engineers/) #[[software engineering]] #[[software careers]]
	- > A truly great engineering organization is one where perfectly normal, workaday software engineers, with decent software engineering skills and an ordinary amount of expertise, can consistently move fast, ship code, respond to users, understand the systems they’ve built, and move the business forward a little bit more, day by day, week by week.
	- > [...] when it comes to building sociotechnical systems for software delivery, we should focus on all the ways people are normal.
	  Normal people have cognitive biases — confirmation bias, recency bias, hindsight bias. We work hard, we care, and we do our best; but we also forget things, get impatient, and zone out. Our eyes are inexorably drawn to the color red (unless we are colorblind). We develop habits and ways of doing things, and resist changing them. When we see the same text block repeatedly, we stop reading it.
	  We are embodied beings who can get overwhelmed and fatigued.
	- > If you’re lucky enough to have world-class engineers in your org, good for you! Your role as a leader is to leverage their brilliance for the good of your customers and your other engineers, without coming to depend on their brilliance. After all, these people don’t belong to you. They may walk out the door at any moment, and that has to be okay.