- The Convivial Society on [the questions concerning technology](https://theconvivialsociety.substack.com/p/the-questions-concerning-technology). what can we ask ourselves to consider the moral and emotional consequences of our technologies? #[[philosophy of technology]]
- had an interesting chat at work about architecture, gardening, jazz, and engineering. started with this George R.R. Martin quote: #[[software engineering]] #architecture #gardening #jazz
	- > I think there are two types of writers, the architects and the gardeners. The architects plan everything ahead of time, like an architect building a house. They know how many rooms are going to be in the house, what kind of roof they're going to have, where the wires are going to run, what kind of plumbing there's going to be. They have the whole thing designed and blueprinted out before they even nail the first board up. The gardeners dig a hole, drop in a seed and water it. They kind of know what seed it is, they know if planted a fantasy seed or mystery seed or whatever. But as the plant comes up and they water it, they don't know how many branches it's going to have, they find out as it grows. And I'm much more a gardener than an architect.
	- this is not so different from engineering! some of us approach it with a plan from the beginning before we touch code. others experiment and grow their code as they explore.
	- and yet! a gardener must know when to build a greenhouse or a trellis, otherwise their warm-weather crops will die in a cold snap, or their climbing plants will fail to grow. an architect must know that a building they design will be transformed by its human inhabitants in ways that weren't predicted, so there must be room for that growth.
	- in a way, it's also like classical vs. jazz. both involve differing approaches to music and differing balances of planning vs. improvisation. and most things in life lean jazz.