- via IAI, [New Year's resolutions and the myth of self-control](https://iai.tv/articles/new-years-resolutions-and-the-myth-of-self-control-auid-3036) #psychology #self-control #virtue #Aristotle #philosophy
	- related: Vox on [the myth of self-control](https://www.vox.com/science-and-health/2016/11/3/13486940/self-control-psychology-myth)
- related, revisiting my New Year's resolutions from last Jan: #[[new years]]
	- ((65aa0489-410c-41d0-9a4a-887247a6f19a))
	- I totally forgot about them, but I'm surprised to discover that I crushed 2 out of 3! I take more and better notes, and actually refer to them regularly. And I read philosophy more than monthly.
	- I didn't get far on my resolution to build expertise in [[software architecture]], though. I'm still on chapter 8 of [[DDIA]], haven't started the rest of the architecture reading list, and didn't earn any further AWS certs. That's OK though- I did make progress, even if it was smaller and slower than I expected.
- 2025's New Years projects, methinks: #[[new years]]
  id:: 677eb322-3dd4-40b1-ba83-d7a02e082a3d
	- eng: build [[data]] and [[machine learning]] expertise
		- overcome my discomfort with databases and [[SQL]]. get good with [[PostgreSQL]] in particular
		- crush a few DataCamp certs
		- run through [[Build a Large Language Model (from Scratch)]] and [[Designing Machine Learning Systems]] to get a sense of how modern ML systems really work
		- get comfy with [[AI coding assistants]], like Cursor
	- personal: build a [[meditation]] habit. meditate at least 4 times per week. read things relevant to it. when I learn something, write about it or discuss it with others.
	- ed: complete my master's degree by my birthday. then, decide what form I want my future learning to take.
	- personal: guard my time better.
- Oskar Dudycz on [platform teams and the fallacy of the one to rule them all](https://www.architecture-weekly.com/p/thoughts-on-platforms-core-teams). an interesting contrarian take: even platform teams should be focused on small, targeted tools. #[[platform engineering]] #[[software engineering]] #[[software architecture]]
	- > **The longer we work on some code, the more polished it gets? Actually, it’s not always like that. Past me believed in shared reusable code.** Now, I’m looking at it from a different angle. Platforms, shared code, core libraries are many faces of the same issue. We try to build one tool to rule them all, which never works. At least for a longer time.
	  **We try to centralise the code and by that common understanding. Yet, we usually end up with a common misunderstanding.**
	  Whether you call it a “platform team“ or a “core team” the nature of the struggle remains the same: both groups aim to provide foundational solutions across the organization. They often wrestle with the same problem—trying to anticipate every scenario in a single, central codebase or service. Over time, these monolithic solutions become harder to maintain, and the team maintaining them drifts away from the real-world issues developers face day-to-day. That’s how both platform and core teams can fall into the trap of delivering an all-in-one system that erodes under the weight of endless patches and shifting priorities.
	- also some _dope_ talk recommendations I'll need to follow up on!
- Tiến with a pretty good React 19 explainer on [useTransition, useDeferredValue and useActionState](https://lqtiendev.com/react-19-usetransition-usedeferredvalue-and-useactionstate-e739471f7c98) #frontend #React #[[software engineering]]