- NYT on [which city in California burns next](https://www.nytimes.com/2026/01/05/opinion/los-angeles-fires-lessons.html) #disasters #[[disaster recovery]] #fire #environmentalism #collapse #urbanism
	- > Watching from afar, we still reflexively call these disasters “wildfires,” perhaps imagining that they ignite in some distant forest. But there may be little truly “wild” about such fires beyond the ferocity of the burn. Increasingly, disaster strikes almost entirely within an urban envelope, drawing on homes and landscaping for fuel rather than trees and wild brush. These are not forest fires encroaching on human settlement but rather human settlements burning like only forests used to. And stopping them will require something much harder, and more unpopular, than clearing out distant forests of dead wood.
- N+1 on [the Tavistock group relations conference, leftist movement-building, and the history of system psychodynamics](https://www.nplusonemag.com/issue-51/essays/experiences-in-groups/) #groups #psychology #psychoanalysis #management #left #community #sociology
	- > At the beginning, I couldn’t stand the hermeneutic mania, this very literal reading of the room. And then, over the course of days, as I heard myself speak in group, I became aware of a slippery agency inside me that was not entirely mine. My dreams felt like they weren’t my own. I dreamed that the conference was taking place in my parents’ house, which had been vastly expanded into a massive plexiglass ant farm; we were forty-nine human-size ants carving tunnels for one another as we slowly chewed through our environment. In large group, people shared dreams like these, treating them as a common resource from the group’s conjoined unconscious. One member dreamed he was having diarrhea all over the manor, admitting that in actuality he was severely constipated, holding in his shit, fantasizing about spreading it all over the system.
	  The group develops its own internal logic. One person projects a quality onto another, and treats them accordingly, making them a magnet for similar projections from others. Over time these congeal into larger-than-life reputations: You’re crazy and we are normal; you’re brilliant and we are mere mortals; you’re needy and we are capable of providing; I’m not crying — you’re crying. You feel yourself taking on some social roles and not others.