- NYT asks, [can you optimize love?](https://www.nytimes.com/2026/01/06/style/love-symposium-artificial-intelligence-keeper.html) the answers, at least according to this Silicon Valley dating startup, go somewhere unfortunate. #love #culture #tech #dating #psychology #psychometrics #eugenics #sexism #AI #[[history of technology]]
	- > The application, which can take hours to complete, asks users for their height, ancestral background, SAT score and their feelings about entrepreneurs. They can chose from an exhaustive list of political affiliations (conservative or progressive, Zionist or anti-Zionist, neoliberal or neo-Nazi) and select their partner’s “ideal” ethnicity. The system can assess their cheekbone prominence, jaw strength or body-fat percentage from a scanned photo, and analyze their application to estimate an IQ score.
	- > “If the woman is about half a standard deviation more agreeable than the man, that’s the optimal point for relationship durability,” he said, to which I must have emitted an observable psychometric signal.
	  “Look at your face,” Mr. Zervas said. “You’re horrified.”
	- > A woman in the crowd raised a hand. She noted that one of Mr. Zervas’s slides had featured an image of a modelesque woman. She had been assigned an attractiveness rating of 8.6.
	  “If that was an 8, what’s a 10?” she said. “I’ve never seen a 10 if that’s an 8.”
	  “That was an example profile,” Mr. Zervas said. “Don’t base your entire Weltanschauung” — German for “worldview” — “on my slides.”
	- > I found that Mr. Ash had listed “I love eugenics” on his online dating profile, and that his ideas had recently attracted Elon Musk’s attention. As he posts online in Keeper’s voice about how the app’s “pro-family” technology can introduce you to a person “you love so much that you want to make more of them,” his personal account shares other views on family formation.
	  In May, he wrote that the United States could resolve its racial disparities by “preventing the bottom 25 percent of the overall population from breeding.” At the time, Mr. Kozloski, the Keeper chief executive, replied in a post: “Way too cruel. Everyone should be able to experience the joy of having a family. Better to encourage IQ selection in IVF and similar future technologies.”