---
tags: Kierkegaard, philosophy, theology
---

- Journal AA
	- > This also explains a not uncommon phenomenon, a certain stinginess with ideas. Precisely because life is not healthy but knowledge too predominant, ideas are not understood as the natural flowerings on the tree of life, and are not adhered to as such, nor understood to acquire their meaning only in this sense—but as individual glimpses of light, as though such a mass of, as it were, external ideas (sit venia verbo—aphoristically) made life richer. They forget that ideas are like Thor’s hammer, which returns to where it was thrown from, even if in an altered guise.
	- > What I really need is to be clear about what I am to do, not what I must know, except in the way knowledge must precede all action. It is a question of understanding my own destiny, of seeing
	  what the Deity really wants me to do; the thing is to find a truth which is truth for me, to find the idea for which I am willing to live and die. And what use would it be in this respect if I were to discover a so-called objective truth, or if I worked my way through the philosophers’ systems and were able to call them all to account on request, point out inconsistencies in every single circle? And what use would it be in that respect to be able to work out a theory of the state, and put all the pieces from so many places into one whole, construct a world which, again, I myself did not inhabit but merely held up for others to see? What use would it be to be able to propound the meaning of Christianity, to explain many separate facts, if it had no deeper meaning for myself and my life? And the better I became at it and the more I saw others appropriate the offspring of my mind, the more distressing my situation would become, rather like that of parents who in their poverty have to send their children out into the world and turn them over to the care of others. What use would it be if truth were to stand there before me, cold and naked, not caring whether I acknowledged it or not, inducing an anxious shiver rather than trusting devotion?