- p1: easy to get lost in metrics in software engineering
- p2: I put it to you that none of these things measure what makes or breaks your software. We build software so that humans may use it.
- p3: One person who understood this better than most was Heidegger. [Synopsis of ready-to-hand/present-at-hand]
- p4: consequences:
	- the ready is more basic to human experience than the present
	- the ready is pre-reflective
	- the ready is "out in the world"
	- the ready is rooted in human aims
- p5: If Heidegger is to be believed, I am not a Cartesian subject; not thinking-stuff cut off from the world, imposing structure upon it by reason. Neither is the world an inert blob of substance, waiting for  me to carve it by conscious intellectual effort into the familiar items of my everyday life. Rather: I am a being thrown into a world already teeming with meanings before my arrival or consideration. The world is a horizon of possibilities that actively discloses itself to me as I skillfully interact with it in the pursuit of my human aims.
- p6: What would it mean for software if we took this idea seriously? Quite a lot, really.
	- If the ready is more fundamental to human experience than the present, then user metrics cannot capture what matters most. This doesn't mean "stop measuring"! Continue to send your RUM metrics and execute your A/B tests. But do it knowing that these will always be a step removed from ground truth. The more you focus on them, the more fidelity you lose, and the farther you drift from the realm of the ready-at-hand to that of the present-at-hand.
	- If the ready-at-hand is prereflective, then user interviews will not capture what matters most. Certainly, you can learn many things from speaking with users. But if the majority of their interaction with your software is not conscious and reflective, there is no reason to suppose that you will learn the full truth from an interview- even the users themselves may not know it! This is backed up by empirical research (CITE work-as-done vs. as-imagined, CITE that old paper on ergonomics and watching engineers)
	- If the ready-at-hand is "out there in the world", then the very structure of your software puts constraints on how users will approach it
	- if the ready-at-hand is rooted in human aims, then to understand the user's actions we must understand their cares and worries. We pay lip service to this with "user stories", but these are too often "just-so stories" about what _we_ intend. Can we become a source of calm and confidence?
- I propose that you should watch humans use your software. I mean this truly, fully, and literally- sit there for an extended period of time and just watch. Don't ask questions or offer corrections. Simply watch. Watch as the user gets lost in your streamlined webforms, haltingly mouseclicks through your ___ keyboard-first UI, and totally misinterprets your intuitive API. Watch as the user applies your software in manners you never thought possible, both wonderful and terrible. Sit and watch- silently, acceptingly, smilingly; cry one bitter salt tear for your software, then build it better.
- When you see how humans truly use your software, you will