---
tags: books, Kierkegaard, philosophy
---

- a sort of sequel to [[Either-Or]], with a similar framing device of an editor claiming to have found the works
	- the layered pseudonyms, framing device, and appearances of other of K's pseudonyms make this seem a precursor to [[metaficton]] and/or [[ergodic literature]]!
- 1st chapter- In Vino Veritas, in which a number of Kierkegaardian pseudonyms from other works speak about love, modeled on [[Plato]]'s [[The Symposium]]
- 2nd chapter- a defense of marriage, written by Judge William from Either-Or
- 3rd chapter
	- Guilty / Not Guilty by Quidam, recalling the Seducer's Diary from Either/Or and the author's culpability
	- Letter To The Reader, by Fr. Taciturnus, claiming to have found Guilty / Not Guilty at the bottom of a lake. discusses sin and forgiveness
		- man lives in immediacy, in harmony in the world. then, there is sin, and the immediacy is broken- we move to reflection. how do we reach forgiveness and enter a second immediacy in the world?
		- emphasizes the difficult of Christian doctrine, and warns against those who claim to understand it. supposes that in the eyes of such people, he'll be seen as stupid. but that's no bother- [[Socrates]] was seen in the same way!
-
- takedown on [[Fichte]] and [[German Idealism]]:
	- > Although one reads hundreds of times: Immediacy IS annulled-one never sees a single statement about how a person manages to exist in th1s manner. One might conclude from this that the writers are poking fun at one and themselves privately exist by virtue of immediacy and in addition make their living by writing books about Its being annulled. Perhaps the system is not even very difficult to understand, but what makes the appropriation very difficult is that all the middle terms have been skipped over-about how the individual suddenly becomes a metaphysical *I-I*, to what extent it is feasible, to what extent permissible, to what extent all the ethical has not been set aside, to what extent the system's eternal truth, as presupposition (with respect to the existential, psychological, ethical, and religious) does not have a necessary little lie, for want of another introduction, and to what extent the system's heavenly text in explanation does not offer rather shabby notes as well as an ambiguous tradition that exempts the initiates from thinking anything decisive even about what is most decisive. An immediate genius can become a poet, artist, mathematician, etc., but a thinking person must, after all, know his relationship to the human existence lest he, despite all the German *[tydske]* books, become a monstrosity *[Utydske]* (with the help of the pure being, which is an unthing). He must indeed know how far it is ethically and religiously defensible to close himself up metaphysically, to be unwilling to respect the claim life has-not upon his many blissfully transporting thoughts, not upon his fancied *I-I*, but upon his human *you*, whether life calls him to pleasure and happiness and enjoyment or to terror and trembling, because thoughtlessly to remain unaware of that is just as dubious. And if he is able thoughtlessly to disregard this, then try something with that kind of a thinker: place him in Greece-and he will be laughed to scorn in that chosen land, so fortunate in its beautiful location, so fortunate in its rich language, so fortunate in its unparalleled art, so fortunate in the happy temperament of its people, so fortunate in its beautiful girls, but first and last so fortunate in its thinkers, who sought and struggled to understand themselves and themselves in existence before they tried to explain all existence.